1.Connect Tom and Tina's Laptops:

Connect laptops via LAN cable or wireless if they are in close proximity.

2.Check Subnet and Ping:

Run ifconfig on each laptop to find their IP addresses and subnet.
Use the ping command to check if they can reach each other's laptops:

ping <other_ip_address>
Remote Log-In (SSH vs. Telnet):

SSH (Secure Shell): SSH is a secure remote log-in protocol that provides encrypted communication. It's recommended for security reasons. To SSH into another machine:


ssh username@remote_ip

Telnet: Telnet is not secure and transmits data in plaintext. It's not recommended for sensitive tasks. To use Telnet:


telnet remote_ip


File Sharing Alternatives:

FTP (File Transfer Protocol): Standard for transferring files over a network. Not secure as credentials are transmitted in plaintext.
TFTP (Trivial File Transfer Protocol): Simple file transfer protocol often used for booting devices.
SCP (Secure Copy Protocol): Secure file transfer over SSH.
SFTP (SSH File Transfer Protocol): Securely transfer files using SSH encryption.
Troubleshooting Tools:

Wireshark: Network protocol analyzer to capture and analyze data.
Tcpdump: Command-line packet analyzer.
Netstat: Displays network connections, routing tables, interface statistics, masquerade connections, etc.
Firewall Port Opening:

Opening specific ports in the firewall is important to allow traffic for specific services. For example, if you're running a web server, you'll need to open port 80 for HTTP.

DoS Attack and Remedy:

DoS (Denial of Service) Attack: An attempt to overwhelm a system by flooding it with traffic.
Remedy: Implement firewalls, rate limiting, and intrusion detection systems. Use services like DDoS protection to filter malicious traffic.
Connecting to the Internet:

Possible DoS Attack:
If certain ports (e.g., HTTP port 80) are open and unprotected, attackers could flood the system with traffic, causing a DoS.
Implement firewall rules to limit access to specific ports from untrusted sources.





